	People use the concepts of “and” and “or” frequently in their everyday lives, so AND and OR gates are relatively intuitive. However, “nand” and “nor,” which mean “not and” and “not or” respectively, are seldom used outside of technical fields. However, the NAND and NOR logic gates are far more vital to digital circuit design than AND and OR. Despite AND and OR being more intuitive, the efficiency and utility of NAND and NOR gates makes them the fundamental building blocks of all digital circuits.
	NAND and NOR are both functionally complete unlike AND and OR, meaning that any logic expression can be implemented using only NAND gates or NOR gates. For instance, an inverter, or a NOT gate, can be implemented by wiring both inputs of a NAND or NOR gate to the input to be inverted. AND and OR gates are functionally incomplete because they have no way of inverting data. Because of this property of functional completeness, NAND and NOR gates make AND and OR unnecessary for constructing circuits.
	Cost and efficiency depend on the number of transistors a logic gate uses, and in this regard, NAND and NOR gates are superior to their counterparts. A NMOS NAND or NOR gate only uses two transistors and a CMOS NAND or NOR gate requires four. On the other hand, CMOS AND and OR gates require six transistors each. As a result, the price and time delay of NAND and NOR gates are less than those of other gates.
	NAND and NOR gates are fundamental to many common circuits like latches and flip-flops. For instance, an SR-latch and a gated D-latch can be implemented with two NOR gates and four NAND gates respectively. These implementations are usually optimal since they don’t require any inverters. These latches are fundamental components of flip-flops, which are used in countless types of digital circuits, such as counters. As such, NAND and NOR gates are far more common in digital circuits than other gates.
	People tend to understand AND and OR gates because the concepts of “and” and “or” are in their everyday lives. However, in digital circuits, NAND and NOR gates are far more prevalent and important. Any logic function can be created using only NAND gates or NOR gates, including inverters and XOR. NAND and NOR gates also use only fewer transistors than AND and OR gates do, reducing their cost and time delay. Furthermore, NAND and NOR gates are commonplace in many fundamental circuits such as latches and flip-flops. In conclusion, NAND and NOR gates are the most essential logic gates in digital circuits.
